(1)Experimental Plugin Releases - superseded by incrementals,  &  (2)Correct description of controller/built-in node (#6108)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/doc/developer/publishing/releasing-experimental-updates.adoc

title: Publishing Experimental Plugin Releases
layout: developer
---

> link:https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/managing/plugins/[The Plugin] Manager downloads plugins and their dependencies into a folder which enables easier import into an instance of Jenkins which benefits in avoiding the recreation of docker files or other implications of plugin management in Jenkins.
> This also provides more information about the plugins being downloaded.link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/plugin-installation-manager-tool[Plugin installation manager tool for Jenkins]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/plugin-installation-manager-tool[The Plugin Manager tool] downloads plugins and their dependencies into a folder, which enables easier import into an instance of Jenkins.
This avoids the recreation of docker files, or other implications of plugin management, in Jenkins.
This also provides more information about the plugins being downloaded, such as available updates or security warnings.
```
updated to include the direct link in the first sentence, added some info about what information is provided, sentence per line formatting

> With Usage of link:https://www.jenkins.io/doc/developer/plugin-development/incrementals/[Incremental] build, the user can create incremental versions of Jenkins core or an upstream plugin on which the under developed downstream plugin can depend upon, which allows switching between and keeping track of incremental versions.
> 
> This is a preferred technique to test and explore unreleased plugin versions as it is much easier for a Jenkins administrator to add the experimental update center to their Jenkins controller. This also makes it easier for user, as the plugin installation manager tool allows the administrator to use incremental builds without requiring a “beta” release. 
> 
> 
> The other way is to simplify the delivery of beta versions of plugins to interested users. The Jenkins project publishes an _experimental update center_.
> It includes alpha and beta versions of plugins, which aren't usually included in the regular update center. The Following will give detailed explanation of this method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One way to simplify delivery, is by using link:https://www.jenkins.io/doc/developer/plugin-development/incrementals/[incremental] builds.
This provides the user with the flexibility to create incremental versions of Jenkins core or an upstream plugin on which the under developed downstream plugin can depend upon. 
This allows for switching between and keeping track of incremental versions.
This is a preferred technique to test and explore unreleased plugin versions, as it is much easier for a Jenkins administrator to add the experimental update center to their Jenkins controller.
This also makes it easier for the user, as the plugin installation manager tool allows the administrator to use incremental builds without requiring a “beta” release. 
The other way is to simplify the delivery of beta versions of plugins to interested users.
The Jenkins project publishes an _experimental update center_.
It includes alpha and beta versions of plugins, which aren't usually included in the regular update center.
The following will give a detailed explanation of this method:
```
sentence per line formatting, some punctuation and syntax suggestions

title: Publishing Experimental Plugin Releases
layout: developer
---
The link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/plugin-installation-manager-tool[Plugin Manager tool] with link:/doc/developer/plugin-development/incrementals/[incremental] builds is often a preferred technique as it benefits the user by:

> - providing additional information about the plugins being downloaded (such as, available updates or security warnings and many more), 

Reviewer 2: What does this mean, and how does it relate to incrementals? The update center does not emit security warnings for incremental builds.
Nor is the plugin installation manager tool able to _add_ more information, rather it gathers what is already present, no?

> - enabling easier import into an instance of jenkins by downloading plugins and their respective dependencies into a folder,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- enabling easier import into an instance of Jenkins by downloading plugins and their respective dependencies into a folder,
```

- making it easier to test and explore unreleased plugin versions,

> - providing the user with flexibility to create incremental versions of jenkins core or an upstream plugin with dependencies while also providing the ability to switch between and keep track of incremental versions.

Reviewer 2: What does that mean? End users cannot create and distribute incrementals of core and plugins to use for others. Incremental builds are created if the so-called maven profile is specified and something triggers the use of the profile.
The creation of incremental builds is unrelated to the plugin manager tool.

- allowing the administrator to use incremental builds, without requiring a "beta" release.

The other way, is to simplify the delivery of plugin beta versions of to interested users. 
The Jenkins project publishes an _experimental update center_.

> The update center includes alpha and beta versions of plugins, which aren't usually included in the regular update center. 
> The following will give detailed explanation of this method:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
NOTE: The experimental update center is deprecated to use in favor of incrementals, as described above. 
```
Let's express preference of incrementals over the experimental update center with a note.

title: Publishing Experimental Plugin Releases
layout: developer
---
The link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/plugin-installation-manager-tool[Plugin Manager tool] downloads plugins and their dependencies into a folder, which enables easier import into an instance of Jenkins.
This benefits the user by providing more information about the plugins being downloaded, such as available updates or security warnings and many more.

> To simplify delivery, link:/doc/developer/plugin-development/incrementals/[Incremental] builds can be used. 
> This provides the user with flexibility to create incremental versions of Jenkins core or an upstream plugin on which under development downstream plugin can depend upon. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To simplify delivery, link:/doc/developer/plugin-development/incrementals/[incremental] builds can be used. 
This method provides the user with flexibility to create incremental versions of Jenkins core or an upstream plugin with dependencies. 
```
Suggestion for changing the link alt text to sentence case
The other suggestion is to rephrase this sentence as the last part is a bit awkward. I've suggested changing it to dependencies as I think that would mean the same thing in this case. However, if there are other alternatives, I'm very open to it!

Reviewer 3: what does the sentence actually say? It sounds a bit like it's trying to explain what incremental means, using the word incremental. I think this page should not try to explain incrementals at all (just link to https://www.jenkins.io/doc/developer/plugin-development/incrementals/ where needed), instead it should clearly explain why are incrementals considered better than experimental update center releases both for testing and for downstream plugin development.

> This also provides the ability to  switch between and keep track of incremental versions.
> The plugin installation manager tool with an incremental build is a preferred technique to test and explore unreleased plugin versions. It is much easier for a Jenkins administrator to add the experimental update center to their Jenkins controller. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This also provides the ability to switch between and keep track of incremental versions.
The plugin installation manager tool, with an incremental build, is a proven technique to test and explore unreleased plugin versions. 
These abilities make it easier for a Jenkins administrator to add the experimental update center to their Jenkins controller. 
```
suggestion to fix some spacing, update the sentence per line formatting, and suggestion for rewording the last sentence to be a bit more descriptive.

> This also makes it easier for users, as the plugin installation manager tool allows the administrator to use incremental builds without requiring a “beta” release. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This also provides a better experience for users, as the plugin installation manager tool allows the administrator to use incremental builds, without requiring a “beta” release. 
```
suggestion to update some formatting

> The other way is to simplify the delivery of beta versions of plugins to interested users. 
> The Jenkins project publishes an _experimental update center_.
> It includes alpha and beta versions of plugins, which aren't usually included in the regular update center. 
> The following will give detailed explanation of this method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The other way, is to simplify the delivery of plugin beta versions to interested users. 
The Jenkins project publishes an _experimental update center_.
The update center includes alpha and beta versions of plugins, which aren't usually included in the regular update center. 
The following will give detailed explanation of this method:
```
suggestion to reword text and formatting

title: Publishing Experimental Plugin Releases
layout: developer
---

> link:https://www.jenkins.io/doc/book/managing/plugins/[The Plugin Manager tool] downloads plugins and their dependencies into a folder, which enables easier import into an instance of Jenkins.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
link:/book/managing/plugins/[The Plugin Manager tool] downloads plugins and their dependencies into a folder, which enables easier import into an instance of Jenkins.
```

> This avoids the recreation of docker files, or other implications of plugin management in Jenkins.

Reviewer 3: how is plugin manager related to docker files?

> link:/doc/book/managing/plugins/[The Plugin Manager tool] downloads plugins and their dependencies into a folder, which enables easier import into an instance of Jenkins.
> This avoids the recreation of docker files, or other implications of plugin management in Jenkins.
> This also provides more information about the plugins being downloaded, such as available updates or security warnings.link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/plugin-installation-manager-tool[Plugin installation manager tool for Jenkins]. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/plugin-installation-manager-tool[Plugin Manager tool] downloads plugins and their dependencies into a folder, which enables easier import into an instance of Jenkins.
This avoids the recreation of docker files, or other implications of plugin management in Jenkins.
This also provides more information about the plugins being downloaded, such as available updates or security warnings. 
```
Moved link to plugin manager introduction line, I think it makes more sense there. The existing link was not spaced away from the text, so moving it also helps sort the text overall.

> One way to simplify delivery, is by using link:https://www.jenkins.io/doc/developer/plugin-development/incrementals/[incremental] builds. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One way to simplify delivery, is by using link:/developer/plugin-development/incrementals/[incremental] builds. 
```

> This provides the user with the flexibility to create incremental versions of Jenkins core or an upstream plugin on which the under developed downstream plugin can depend upon. 

Reviewer 3: "under developed ... plugin" looks like a typo

title: Publishing Experimental Plugin Releases
layout: developer
---
The link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/plugin-installation-manager-tool[Plugin Installation Manager tool] with link:/doc/developer/plugin-development/incrementals/[incremental] builds is often a preferred technique :

- Plugin installation manager tool enables easier import into an instance of Jenkins by downloading plugins and their respective dependencies into a folder.

- It allows the administrator to use incremental builds, without requiring a "beta" release.

- And provides handy information about the plugins being downloaded (such as, available updates or security warnings and many more).

- Incremental builds, on the other hand, provides the user with the flexibility to create incremental versions of jenkins core or an upstream plugin with dependencies, while providing the ability to switch between and keep track of incremental versions.

- It makes it easier to test and explore unreleased plugin versions.

The other way, is to simplify the delivery of plugin beta versions to interested users. 
The Jenkins project publishes an _experimental update center_.

> The update center includes alpha and beta versions of plugins, which aren't usually included in the regular update center. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The experimental update center includes alpha and beta versions of plugins, which aren't usually included in the regular update center. 
```

> NOTE: The experimental update center is deprecated to use in favor of incrementals, as described above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The experimental update center is deprecated in favor of incrementals, as described above.
```
suggestion for sentence format

> The following will give detailed explanation of this method:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I would remove this sentence, it doesn't help/provide anything useful to the user

=== In official Docker images

> The Official link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker[Jenkins Docker image] includes plugin management scripts which allow preinstalling plugins from the Experimental update center. 
> 
> The container images support managing plugin versions as code so that the admministrator can define a container image that includes the exact plugin they require.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Official link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker[Jenkins Docker image] includes plugin management scripts, which allow preinstalling plugins from the experimental update center. 
The container images support managing plugin versions as code, so that the administrator can define a container image that includes the exact plugin they require.
```
suggestion for single sentence per line and some other syntax

=== In official Docker images

> The official link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker[Jenkins Docker image] includes plugin management scripts which allow preinstalling plugins from the Experimental update center. 
> The container images support managing plugin versions as code, so that the administrator can define a container image that includes the exact plugin they require.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The official link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker[Jenkins Docker image] includes plugin management scripts, which allow preinstalling plugins from the _experimental update center_. 
The container images support managing plugin versions as code, so that the administrator can define a container image including the exact plugin they require.
```
suggestion for adding italicized formatting, and updating some text

> See the documentation and examples link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker#preinstalling-plugins[here].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker#preinstalling-plugins[Docker documentation and examples] for additional information.
```
update to use refer as opposed to see
